Maintaining some degree of website
accessibility is a legal requirement in
many countries, including the UK and USA.
But more than that, it's about creating
more inclusive online spaces for everyone.
The website content accessibility
guidelines are designed to make content
on desktops, laptops, tablets, and
mobile devices, more accessible to
our wider range of people, especially
those with disabilities, including
blindness and low vision, deafness
and hearing loss, limited movement.
Speech disabilities,
photo sensitivity, and some
learning disabilities like dyslexia.
The guidelines state that
content and user interfaces
should be perceivable, operable,
understandable, robust, and reliable.
But what do these
principles mean in practice?
Perceivable making your content
perceivable means improving
visibility and readability.
Through clear and consistent headers
that enhance the user experience,
descriptive alt text for images
and considerations for screen readers.
Operable.
An operable navigation and user interface
means users can navigate with a keyboard
alone without using a mouse or track pad.
They have time to read and
interact with your content.
Understand their position on the page
and easily move through your website,
finding all the info they're looking for.
Understandable.
It's important to make your content and
the user journey as easy as possible
to understand, use clear and simple
language, be consistent throughout
the navigation, and provide meaningful
error messages to minimize confusion.
Robust and reliable.
When building robust and reliable
websites, it's important to ensure
compatibility with various browsers
and assistive technologies, allowing
users to access your content
regardless of the tools they use.
This means both future proofing and
iterating for the latest technology.
Once you understand these principles, you
can start to implement them by following
the website content accessibility
guidelines linked in the description.
Then you can assess how well your
site conforms a basic accessibility,
AA strong accessibility.
AAA, excellent accessibility.
AA is the standard all
websites should be aiming for.
While AAA criteria are generally
considered more applicable to
specific circumstances and content
types, it's unlikely you'll need to
tick every AAA box, but some may be
relevant to your business or users.
So next time you start a website project
or update your site, be sure to check
whether it meets user expectations
and accessibility guidelines or get
in touch and we'll be happy to help.
Did you find this video helpful?
Let us know in the comments
or hit the like button.
And don't forget to subscribe
for more marketing insights.